[Music]
So today we are entering a
Dharma sharing session, reviewing the Dharma teachings
we have learned from our
teachers and senior monks so that we can
apply them in our daily lives to be in accordance with the
Dharma and find peace. So
today, Yen would like to answer the question
first.  Because so many people are
confused.  Hello, Auntie.  I've recently started learning about
Buddhism.  Every day I go on
Facebook and see a lot of news about
murder, organ harvesting and sale,
child rape, beatings and torture,
students beating each other, domestic violence, and
other frightening images.  I would like to ask
you, Madam,
what is the proper way for a Buddhist to behave when
seeing these articles, and how can one
avoid being haunted by these images?
My grandchild is often deeply affected and frightened
when watching or reading articles with content
like the one
above.  This is also a common sentiment, is
n't it, general public?  When I see a person of color
killing off organs, I say that this is a
barbaric act.  Or maybe we should just
arrest them and deal with them all
.  Do you all agree?
Therefore, we Buddhists must understand
that this is the law of karma that those who have had their
organs removed must pay for.  First,
we need to understand this
.  Everything that comes to all living beings
is due to cause and effect.
Do you all agree?  So
how can we Buddhist villagers
not unreasonably curse that organ harvester,
right?  And don't defend the
person who had their organs removed without reason.
I can write here that the person who underwent the
organ harvesting procedure, in my opinion, committed many acts of killing in a previous life, and despite
being advised against it, they did
not stop.  Do you all agree?  So,
by now, they've been killed like that, having
all their organs taken.  That means he was killed.
Then I also wrote in
there that those who undergo organ harvesting
may
suffer karmic retribution in their next life, with no
way to escape it.  There's no way
out.  So, after that, below
I can add that I'm asking relevant
authorities to help, or anyone who knows about
this organ harvesting, to report it to the police
to minimize this karmic suffering and
resentment for everyone involved
.  That's it, I'm done.  So I
don't feel sorry for people who have had
organ surgery.  I don't
hate or resent the person who undergoes organ surgery because of it.
Because if we harbor hatred towards this practitioner,
it means we are unaware of karma.  When we
harbor feelings of sorrow and despair, it means we lack a proper
profession.  The compassion of the Buddhas is completely free and
unconstrained.  Because they understand the law of cause and effect,
they are at peace.  Do the general public agree
?  That's the same procedure for handling organ transplants
.  Child rape, beatings and torture
, students beating
each other, jealousy-fueled fights—all of these are
karmic consequences.  But what we
should be saying is, please, if you encounter
this situation, try to prevent it
.  I hope those who committed the beating will reflect
on the consequences of their actions.  Otherwise, you have to
reap what you sow.  If we beat
people up like this, eventually we'll be
beaten up ourselves, and there will be no one to intervene.
The Buddha taught that Bodhisattvas fear the cause, while sentient beings fear the
effect.  Having sown this seed, one must reap the consequences, either
for oneself or for one's children
in the future, and one must
endure the suffering.
Do you all agree?  At least I'm not obsessed with
anything
.  So, I'm asking the public that
regarding issues like child rape, if we
don't want to condemn the
perpetrator, then writing about child rape
will harm people's compassion.  It harms
one's own capacity for love.  Therefore, because of that
karmic consequence, in the next life,
wherever you go, people will treat
you without kindness.  Teacher, do you think that's right
?  There's no love involved.  And I also believe
that those who were raped
also had karmic consequences in their past lives.  May
all who study Buddhism understand
cause and effect, abandon evil, and do good.  What
we see in the general public is correct, isn't it?  Then the
consequences won't come to me.  That's how
we can intelligently participate in Facebook
.  Do you all agree with
that answer?  Okay.  This means
we must observe the law of cause and effect so that when
we participate in everything,
our words do not harbor malicious intent.
Because I'm intelligent, I can't bring myself to
stay single
.  The question is question three.
Respectfully addressing the head of the Dharma center and all fellow
practitioners.  My name is Pham Thi Duyen, and I currently
work at the Incense and Candle Department.  I have a
question that I would like you to answer for me and my fellow
practitioners.  Over a
month ago, while I was arranging flowers in the main hall,
a woman came up to me, struck up a conversation,
and then gave me a question and
answer from Venerable Thich Thong Lac.
Since it involves Venerable Thich Thong Lac again,
Yen will have to answer.  Although I did
n't really want to
.  I've read it but I don't fully understand it. I hope you can
explain it to me and everyone else so we can all
understand.  I will quote it verbatim.  A heartfelt
letter from the Venerable Arhat Thich Thong
Lac.  The master taught about the beautiful law of cause and effect.
Lieu Huong asked: "Reverend
Master, if I offer flowers to the Three Jewels in this life
, and in the next life I am reborn as a human,
will I have a beautiful body
?"  The teacher
replied: According to the Sutra of Karma,
offering flowers to the Three Jewels
will result in being reborn as a beautiful human in the next life
.  This is unrealistic and goes
against the compassionate spirit of Buddhism.   A
flowering plant is a living herb
.  So, if we directly cut flowers
or indirectly buy flowers, causing them to
lose their life, and then offer them to the
Three Jewels, what meaning is there in the beautiful scene of flowers
being cut off from their mother plant?
Then we think that offering
flowers like that will make us beautiful in the future
.  The law of karma does not permit
such wicked acts.  Because in a few days the flower branches will
wither and fall, and they will rot.
Clearly, the death of a flower branch leaves
no room for beauty.  Who caused the flower branch to
wither and brought about its death?  Was
that the person who offered the flowers?
Such actions, with their causal effect, are
evil.  How could someone who commits such evil deeds
possibly have a beautiful body
?  If someone regularly cuts flowers to offer
to Buddha, their next life will be ugly because their
actions of killing flowers cause
them to wither and become unsightly.
As taught in the original Buddhist scriptures,
here, young people, whether men
or women, are filled with anger and resentment. When the Buddha's intentions
are mentioned even slightly, they become
indignant, resentful, and show their anger and
dissatisfaction. Due to this karma,
after their physical
body perishes and their life ends, if they are not reborn into
the realm of evil beasts or hell, but are reborn
as humans, their bodies will be ugly.
This path leads to ugliness; this
young person is indeed showing anger and dissatisfaction.
This passage is taken from the
Majjhima Nikaya, volume 3, the discourse on the distinction of minor karma,
page
477. The flower is cut and displayed to beautify
people, not to beautify the
Buddhas.  Seeing a flower branch cut off, even a
Buddha would feel deeply saddened.  Even the
Buddha wouldn't trample on grass, let alone cut
flowers.  Humankind, unaware of the law of cause and
effect, uses the death of flowers to beautify
themselves.  As Buddhist disciples, whether laypeople or
monks, let us practice compassion
as the Buddha taught, showing mercy to the
lives of all
beings.  If humans take the death of
living beings as their own source of life and beauty,
how can life not be full of suffering?
Unless people want to escape suffering, they should
put an end to these extremely evil acts.  If this
suffering and misfortune are not brought to an end forever, it is precisely the
ignorance of humanity that has persisted for countless lifetimes.  That
also reflects a lack of love for the
lives of all living things.  The act of
cutting flowers to offer as a sacrifice to the Three Jewels is an
immoral act.  Only the scriptures of
heterodox religions taught
such immoral things, making the practice of offering flowers
as a sacrifice an extremely
cruel and wicked custom.  Therefore, it's heartbreaking to see people now
offering flowers to Buddha at temples
.  As Buddhists, we
must cultivate
compassion for all living
beings on this planet.  Because only by
loving the lives of all beings can we truly
love ourselves.  A heartfelt message from your teacher:
I wish all fellow practitioners
worldwide peace of mind, body, and well-being, free from
worries.  Author: Venerable Thich Thong
Lac, Vietnamese Buddhist
.  Raise your hand if you agree with this point of view
[Applause]
.  That's too difficult.  If someone doesn't
know what spiritual practice is like, then they're already quite something
.  Yen will analyze the original scripture
first.
Here,
young people, whether men or women,
express their anger and resentment when their Buddhist opinions are mentioned even slightly, leading to feelings of
indignation, anger, and opposition,
and showing their indignation and dissatisfaction.  Because of
that karma,
such success and achievement are attained after the body perishes and life ends.
If one is not born into a realm of
evil beasts and hell, but is instead born
as a human, then their body and appearance will be ugly.
That path leads to the evil of youth suba,
which means resentment, anger, and dissatisfaction; the
result of this
is anger, resentment, and dissatisfaction, which will lead to
evil.  In other words, it's about one's own mind; if there is
resentment,
dissatisfaction, or anger, then it will become bad.  Is there anyone here who
offers flowers to Buddha with a heart filled with
anger, resentment, or dissatisfaction? Is there
anyone who offers flowers to Buddha with such a mindset
?  No one offers flowers to Buddha
with these three kinds of thoughts in their mind.  Therefore, offering
flowers to Buddha is not a bad thing.  Right
?  Because no one would offer flowers to
Buddha with a dissatisfied or angry heart,
right?  Therefore, the teacher's teaching that offering flowers
to Buddha is a bad thing is contrary to the original
scriptures.  That's incorrect according to this scripture.
Do you all agree?  Right
[music]
?  Huh?  Then, what mental states give rise to
anger, resentment, and dissatisfaction? We must
elaborate on these.  For example, if
someone kills a chicken and eats it together happily,
will they be beautiful in the next life
[in music]
?  If a person commits acts of killing,
their body will be afflicted with illness in the next life, so they can
never be beautiful.  Therefore,
we must observe the first precept: not to
kill, not to steal, not to commit adultery,
not to lie, and not to be drunk or
addicted.
Besides those things, a joyful and happy heart
will make you beautiful.
Do you all agree?  If you maintain moral conduct within your community while keeping your heart
joyful and happy, you will be beautiful.  But if,
outside of worldly realms, the mind remains joyful and happy,
without anger, dissatisfaction, or
resentment, then the mind is still beautiful.  Teacher,
do you think that's right?  For example, like this...  One
person like this, for example,
Yen, is killing a
chicken.  Then someone came up and said, "Sister,
don't kill chickens or show them any affection."  If
Yen gets angry,
that will only make things worse, right
?  But after someone had killed a chicken,
this person came and advised her, "Sister, please
don't kill the chicken."  But he didn't show any anger.
Then they say, "Oh my god, why bother arguing with those idiots?"
Even though people don't harbor resentment,
they still get hurt.  It still looks bad.
Do they see this correctly?  This point needs to be clearly understood
.  Now let's talk about the rules regarding
cutting flowers for offerings
.  What defines an evil person?  The Buddha
often referred to those who violate precepts, meaning those who use
precepts as a
guide for all their thoughts and actions
.  If someone doesn't fit the gender,
what do you call them?  Evil person.
Do you all agree?  Killing living beings is evil,
stealing is evil, adultery is evil, lying
is evil, and drunkenness and addiction, which
cause suffering to others,
are also evil.  That's what you call evil.  That means
my inherent virtue leads me to do
evil things.  That is an evil deed
.  As for flowers, they are indifferent creatures
, not sentient beings.  Not
killing means not killing sentient beings,
okay?  It's not about
refraining from killing sentient beings.  Now, Yen will
tell the audience, in this world,
if two sides are fighting, that
is, one side is fighting the other, and
then both sides try to reason with each other,
bring flowers, cut flowers,
one side brings flowers to give to the other
side, has that been considered reconciliation
?  They reconciled first, then brought flowers to give to
each other.  Is that virtue or vice?   People who are
wicked must transform into virtuous ones
before they can give each other flowers.  Is
cutting flowers to give to teachers on November 20th considered wicked, or is it a sign of
kindness and gratitude?
And now it's the
8th of the month.  The husband, after
hearing people say his wife had
worked hard all year, realized that
this woman
possessed many admirable qualities.  I
love you, so I bring you flowers and give you whatever I want as a
gift.  A flower is a means of expressing
one's heart.  Do you all agree?   As
worldly people, we must observe the five precepts
.  As for those who have renounced
worldly life, they are usually monks who study and practice moral precepts in order to
teach them to others; that is what we call the
blossoming of virtuous conduct.  And what about me? I'm also a
flower, but what do I represent?
Show your virtue, your kind heart
.  Teacher, do you think that's right
?  Therefore, by cutting flowers, they
unintentionally avoid committing the act of killing.
Not engaging in the act of killing does not
constitute an evil deed.  Do you all agree?
Now let's consider another hypothesis.  If
no one in the world used flowers, then no one would
grow them, right?  Nobody plants flowers
anymore.  So, if no one in this world
planted flowers
anymore, would life still be possible for
everyone?
We are in the realm of desire.  Therefore, the point
we are making is that we cannot help but plant
flowers, we cannot help but love flowers.
Do you all agree?  What's wrong with a homemaker loving
flowers?  As for the teachers who
cut off all attachments, we should
gradually practice until we reach that point, then we can put
that into practice.  Is this what we think is correct
?  Then Yen said that if we
analyze it this way, in the second world, giving
cut flowers as gifts is considered
immoral.  Now let's talk about
vegetables, vegetables to eat
.  Once the vegetables are grown, is it
cruel to cut them first?  Vegetables and wildflowers are meant to be together by
chance.  So, cutting vegetables is considered
wicked.  According to Master Thong Lac, is cutting
vegetables considered an evil deed?  Have.  So,
cooking it and putting it in a hot place is just
too
cruel, right?  That means after cutting it,
it's still stuck in water and can survive for
a while until it wilts. But
it's so fresh like this, and then you put it in a
pot of boiling water, or like those raw vegetables,
add vinegar and lemon juice... it's
terrible.  So, wouldn't thinking like that be
incredibly wicked?   And then, after it's
already cooked, they still put it in their mouths and
chew it—that's the
ultimate waste.  Teacher, do you think that's right?  After eating it, it
even went into the digestive tract,
completely dissolving it within the time frame of being cut from
yesterday to today, making
this vegetable utterly
unrecognizable.  And that guy with the flowers, you can still
see his face even after a week
.
Then this is evil, with not a shred of
good left.  So, who is the most evil
?  Those who eat a lot of vegetables are the worst.
Therefore, there is not a shred of goodness in this world
.  Because you can only live if you eat vegetables
.  At the very least, you should
eat vegetables.  If you can't eat meat or fish, you have to eat
vegetables.  Teacher, do you think that's right?
But I think this explanation is
extremely cruel.  So, if someone is this extremely evil,
what will they be like in their next life?  They're all demons
.  Do you all agree?  To be
appointed to a position like this, only a devil could be a devil
.  That means being as bad as a
devil.  So who was the bad guy first?  Who looks bad first
?  Buddhist monks are supposed to be bad first.
That's because the person who grows the vegetables
and makes offerings and cuts them also has a
small act of merit by cutting vegetables for the monks
to eat.  As for the teachers, all they can do is eat what it eats, swallow it,
and then spit it out.  So the teachers
are the worst.  So, the person giving
this lecture is the most evil person,
right?  According to
Master Thong Lac's teachings, Master Thong Lac himself
must be the most evil person.  And then, after
something like this happens, they call someone
else evil.  And I also do this kind of thing, eating
vegetables and causing them suffering. This
proves that the Arhat is the one who
says people don't think about themselves, right
?  They think of others without considering
their own well-being.  Teacher, do you think that's right
?  Right?  I see.  Therefore,
analyzing this text reveals that
this teaching is completely
skewed.  Do you all agree?  Therefore, even if
we do things unintentionally, as long as
we do them meaningfully, it's all acceptable.  And what about the
example of weights? Why does this article
say not to step on the grass?  We
only step on the grass because we have a reason to
.  As for the fact that
we're going in a straight line and then suddenly veering
into the grass, that person
lacks observational skills.  That's why they
call it that even the grass is repulsive when the masters trample on it
.
Do they understand?  That means it's perfectly fine,
nothing is happening, and yet you're stepping
on this patch of grass—that's not allowed.
During the time of the Buddha, there were monasteries like
Truc Lam Monastery and Ky Vien Monastery, and many more. The
monks, including the Anathapindika,
had to cut down trees and build structures before they could ascend to the
Buddha's monastery.  So, if you explain it this way, then those
places of land
must also have flowers,
wildflowers.  Do they see this correctly?  So, does that mean we
should conclude that the Buddha used
evil deeds?  Do you all agree
?  That's a flawed sermon
.  False preaching.  Once
I see that something is good, and it
inspires a kind heart within
me, then I will do it.  Do they all
clearly agree
?  I see.  Therefore,
this sermon was wrong.  Therefore, it's perfectly fine for the flower vendors to
arrange flowers and offer them to
Buddha.  Because this is the
reverence that people have for the Buddha.  For example,
there are people whose parents are the
same.  Those are the parents, you
know.  If we were to spend
100,000 VND buying gifts for our parents...  But I
also spent 1,200, or 5,000 to buy more flowers
.  When parents look at flowers, they feel more cheerful
.  Do you all agree?  Very optimistic about
life.  Now, everyone should go home and practice
watching their parents at home.  Then, for
example, when it comes to clothes, you
only show them off when you wear them,
right?  Put the flowers on the table where the
neighbor is coming over.  That's my daughter.  He came back and bought
me that flower.  Wow, that woman's daughter is so thoughtful!
So,
was my mother happy
?  If I bring joy to my mother, she wo
n't be sad, and she will
forgive me for the mistakes I
made against her in the past.  Then
she would say this:  Before, it didn't
care at all.  Since she started studying Buddhism,
she's even bought things for me and kept
giving me gifts.  That's right,
I really cherish it.  So, does the flower
bring any benefit to the mother-daughter relationship
?  Is it
mainstream?  There.  But if another wife
thinks that today
doesn't need to be a special day, and
occasionally goes to the market to buy a
small flower to give to her husband, then the husband will
buy bigger things to
give her in return.
Why?  That will help bridge the
gap between the two of them.  Now let's put it into practice
.  The two of them had a huge argument, and I
don't know what could possibly make them reconcile.
Mai went and bought a rose right away
.  Then I told them I'd give it to my
child when I got home.  My child, give me this flower.  The child
said, "Dad, Mom and Dad gave you a
rose."  Is it easy to get used to it?  Is it easy
for the general public?   That's so
easy, isn't it?  Thus, the
flower became a means of resolving
hatred.  There.
Do you all agree?  Would the general public accept
this approach when disagreements arise
?  Just buy some flowers as a gift; it only costs a few thousand dong
.  But how can you express so
many things that you couldn't say in your heart
?  With a
flower.  Go ahead and give it as a gift.  Every time they had a
really big argument, unfortunately, they couldn't
reconcile.  Let's buy a flower right now and
give it to our husband or wife
.  Let's leave yesterday's events behind,
and today's story is like a
flower.  After we talk about the flower,
let's talk about this.  Do the general public find
that to be skillful?
It means knowing how to apply Buddhist teachings to one's
daily life so that one can resolve the
karmic debts and resentments that
one has accumulated from past lives.  First, do you agree
?  So, from now on,
how many of you will give flowers when you argue?
Raise your hand and let's see
.  Then, knowing how to apply Buddhist teachings and doing
so is good.  How many people are there who come
home with sulky faces after an argument? Raise your
hand!
From now on, if you're arguing about who gets to show their
face, raise your hand.
[Music]
Nobody taught anything, right?  So, since
this poem about flowers being evil is actually about
using flowers to
resolve grudges and cultivate kindness, let's apply that principle.
to each other.  So, I would also like to express my sincere
gratitude to the person who gave Ms. Duyen
this article, so that we can have an additional
quarter of the resources to apply Buddhist teachings in our
daily practice.  That means this person has
no resentment in their heart.  That is, when a husband and wife
argue, do they still harbor resentment?  The mind is
free from anger and often dissatisfied.  Let's just break up and get it over with, staying like
this is
killing us.  So, when a husband and wife argue, it's a reflection of all
three of those mindsets.  Anger, resentment,
and dissatisfaction.  Now let's use the flower to
address these three mental states.  These
three mental states arise from the
karmic consequences of our past lives, which
cause the couple to be in this state, or cause
us to be in this state with someone else.  If I
use this very flower to
resolve this inner conflict, I'll be reborn
beautiful in my next life.  So, offering flowers
to each other, resolving hatred, and dispelling
worries—what will that turn bad into?  The city is
beautiful.  Therefore, the Buddhist scriptures teach that
our Buddha
has 32 auspicious marks and 80 beautiful features because in
previous lives he offered
countless offerings to other Buddhas. This is correct, and that statement
is found in the developed Buddhist scriptures.  Therefore, the
accusation of blasphemy against the scriptures being presented in
this article is incorrect.
Do the teachers agree on this?  Yes.  I will
end my answer here.  This.
[music]